*[CalcCache](CalcCache "wikilink") Session Specific*

## session-specific versus Persistent

Session-specific means calculation results are available for re-use
during a session, but are deleted when the application is closed. These
results need to be recalculated when a new session is started.

Session-specific is the opposite of persistent. In the
[GeoDMS](GeoDMS "wikilink") persistent means results are also available
after closing and reopening an application.

## session-specific functions

Some functions result in calculation results are related to the
[GeoDMS](GeoDMS "wikilink") session with which they are calculated.
Think for example of the [GeoDMSVersion](GeoDMSVersion "wikilink")
function, a new session with another version of the GeoDMS would result
in different results. These functions are called session-specific.
Direct or any indirect results of a these functions are always
session-specific.

## store results persistently

-   *session-specific functions*

If in a calculation chain a session-specific function is used, the whole
tree needs to be recalculated when a new session is started. To avoid
this, use an indirect expression with in [iif](iif "wikilink")
function, see the example:

`parameter`<string>` version := = (GeoDmsVersion() < 7.120) ? 'oud' : 'nieuw';`

In this example, the GeoDMSVersion function is evaluated when updating
the meta information. In the derived expression the session-specific
GeoDMSVersion function will not longer occur. The calculation results of
the item self and all the derived items can now be stored persistently
in the CalcCache.

-   *[composite functions](Composite_function "wikilink")*

The direct [subitems](subitem "wikilink") generated by a [composite
function](Composite_function "wikilink"), and direct references to
these [items](tree_item "wikilink"), are always session-specific. The
following example shows a way to still store these results in the
[CalcCache](CalcCache "wikilink")

[`attribute`](attribute "wikilink")` `<float32>` DistTo (TestGrid) := GridDist(resistance/grid,Test/PointSet/gridnr, const(0, Test/PointSet, impedance));`

`attribute`<float32>` session_specific (TestGrid)d:= DistTo;`
`attribute`<float32>` persistent       (TestGrid)i:= DistTo + float32(0);`

In this example the
\[\[/attribute\]_*session_specific*_will_not_be_stored_persistently,_as_the_\[\[expression\|attribute\]
*session_specific* will not be stored persistently, as the
[expression](expression "wikilink") is a direct reference to the DistTo
[attribute](attribute "wikilink"), a [subitem](subitem "wikilink")
generated by the [griddist](griddist "wikilink") function.

The [expression](expression "wikilink") of the *persistent*
[item](tree_item "wikilink") adds a value 0 to the *session_specific*
[item](tree_item "wikilink"), resulting in the same calculation
results, but in an item that can be stored persistently (of it meets the
[conditions for storing results](Cached_Results "wikilink") in the
CalcCache).